# oddjob #

oddjob is a lightweight, command line controlled web server.  Built for
development and testing purposes, it can be used to serve static content for
local web development and has basic file upload capabilities.  It was initially
created when web browsers  become more restrictive about displaying local files
directly (file:// URLs).

oddjob's file upload endpoint can be used directly via forms or ajax request you
build yourself with a POST to the `/oj_upload` URL.  A basic file upload form
is also available via a GET request to that same URL.  Upon upload the default
behaviour is for the server to dump the entire upload POST request (header and
body), followed by the contents of each uploaded file to STDOUT.  This is
useful for small tests uploading text files, but if you need to upload larger
or binary format files tell oddjob to save the files to a directory instead. If
you upload and save the same file twice oddjob will not overwrite existing
saved files, instead a unique name is generated by adding a number to the end
of the file's name.

It is easy to hack the oddjob script to build quick test jigs for web
development. Sometimes using a simple test web server is easier than working
with a full fledged development or production environment.  To hack the code
download from the [github repo](https://github.com/MCF/oddjob) and run oddjob
out of the included `bin` directory.

## Usage ##

Run oddjob with the `-h` or `--help` options to see a full description of the
command usage. oddjob also serves a short information page at the
`/oj_info` URL that includes the command usage.

To stop oddjob use the normal interrupt key combination (usually Ctrl-C).

## Examples ##

    oddjob

Serves the files and directories in your current working directory at the
`http://localhost:4400/` URL.  File upload is available at
`http://localhost:4400/oj_upload`

    oddjob -p 2222 -o ./uploads ./my-site

Serves the contents of the `./my-site` directory at the
`http://localhost:2222/` URL, file upload is available at
`http://localhost:2222/oj_upload` files are saved to the
`./uploads` directory.

## Environment ##

oddjob is written in ruby and its only required dependency is a standard ruby
install.  oddjob makes use of the built in ruby web server library
[webrick](http://ruby-doc.org/stdlib-2.0.0/libdoc/webrick/rdoc/WEBrick.html).
No gems are required for running oddjob.  oddjob has been tested with ruby
1.8.7 and up.

## Security ##

By default oddjob only serves to clients on localhost (that is: browsers
running on the same computer as oddjob).  The `-a` option will allow
connections from any hosts. If you do not trust the users on your local network
the `-a` option could be a security concern.  Anyone who could connect to your
IP address could also browse the files served by oddjob.

oddjob will serve the contents of the directory specified on the command line,
or the current working directory if no directory is specified. It does no
filtering on the contents of the directory served, and the entire directory
tree below the top level directory is available for browsing.

oddjob will bind to port 4400 by default. A different port can be specified
with the `-p` option.

## License ##

oddjob is released under an [MIT style license](MIT-LICENSE).

## Contributing ##

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at
https://github.com/MCF/oddjob.
